---
layout: post
title: "t-distributed stochastic nieghbor embedding"
date: 2019-09-19
---

Construction site ....

# When can I use it?

# How does it work?

Two probability distributions are fit to the sample units (e.g. sites). The first, lets call it f_{full}() describes the distribution of the sample units in a space defined by all species, i.e. in a high dimensional space. The second, which we will call f_{reduced}() describes the distribution of the sample units in a lower dimensional space (how are the number of lower dimensions set?). The method tries to minimize the Kullback-Leibler(link) divergence between the two.
A Gaussian kernel(link) is used on each sampling point to determine the probability that another sample is its "neighbor" in the high dimensional space descirbed by f_{full}().
In the low dimensional space a student's t-distribution kernal is used insted. t-distributions have longer tails hence emphasize samller neighborhoods (why?)

The positioning of points in the low dimensional space is optimized via stochastic gradient descent algorithm (link)

# Used by
The method is used by Roberts (2019) in his comparison of distance and model based ordinations.



## References
van der Maaten, L. 2014. Accelerating t-SNE using tree-based algorithms. Journal of Machine Learning Research 15:3221– 3245.   
van der Maaten, L., and G. E. Hinton. 2008. Visualizing data using t-SNE. Journal of Machine Learning Research 9:2431– 2456.   
van der Maaten, L., S. Schmidtlein, and M. D. Mahecha. 2012. Analyzing floristic inventories with multiple maps. Ecological Informatics 9:1–10.  
